Case Study #6 - Clique Bait/B. Product Funnel Analysis.md, before:

Using a single SQL query - create a new output table which has the following details:

* How many times was each product viewed?
* How many times was each product added to cart?
* How many times was each product added to a cart but not purchased (abandoned)?
* How many times was each product purchased?

**Query:**
```sql
WITH 
--gets number of time a product was added to cart but not purchased
abandon as (
    SELECT page_name,
           count(event_type) as abandoned
      FROM events
      JOIN page_hierarchy
     USING (page_id)
     WHERE event_type = 2 
       AND visit_id NOT IN (SELECT visit_id FROM events where event_type =3)
  GROUP BY page_name 
             ),
--gets number of times each product was purchased
purchased as (
    SELECT page_name,
           count(event_type) as purchases
      FROM events
      JOIN page_hierarchy
     USING (page_id)
     WHERE event_type = 2 
       AND visit_id IN (SELECT DISTINCT visit_id FROM events WHERE event_type =3)
  GROUP BY page_name
             )
	
    SELECT ph.page_name as product,
           sum(CASE WHEN event_type = 1 THEN 1 ELSE 0 END) as views,
           sum(CASE WHEN event_type = 2 THEN 1 ELSE 0 END) as cart_adds,
           abandoned,
           purchases
      INTO product_performance
      FROM page_hierarchy ph
      JOIN events e
        ON ph.page_id = e.page_id
      JOIN abandon ab
        ON ph.page_name = ab.page_name 
      JOIN purchased pc
        ON ph.page_name = pc.page_name 
  GROUP BY ph.page_name,abandoned,purchases;
```

```sql
SELECT *
  FROM product_performance
```

**Results:**
| product        | views | cart_adds | abandoned | purchases |
| -------------- | ----- | --------- | --------- | --------- |
| Oyster         | 1568  | 943       | 217       | 726       |
| Salmon         | 1559  | 938       | 227       | 711       |
| Abalone        | 1525  | 932       | 233       | 699       |
| Tuna           | 1515  | 931       | 234       | 697       |
| Black Truffle  | 1469  | 924       | 217       | 707       |
| Russian Caviar | 1563  | 946       | 249       | 697       |
| Lobster        | 1547  | 968       | 214       | 754       |
| Kingfish       | 1559  | 920       | 213       | 707       |
| Crab           | 1564  | 949       | 230       | 719       |

------------------------------------------

Additionally, create another table which further aggregates the data for the above points but this time for each product category instead of individual products.

**Query:**
```sql
WITH 
--gets number of times product from each category was added to cart and not purchased 
abandon as (
	SELECT product_category,
	       count(event_type) as abandoned
	  FROM events
	  JOIN page_hierarchy
	 USING (page_id)
	 WHERE event_type = 2 
	   AND visit_id NOT IN (SELECT visit_id FROM events where event_type =3)
      GROUP BY product_category),
--gets number of times products were purchased from each category
purchased as (
	SELECT product_category,
	       count(event_type) as purchases
	  FROM events
	  JOIN page_hierarchy
	 USING (page_id)
	 WHERE event_type = 2 
	   AND visit_id IN (SELECT DISTINCT visit_id FROM events WHERE event_type =3)
      GROUP BY product_category)
	
        SELECT ph.product_category,
	       sum(CASE WHEN event_type = 1 THEN 1 ELSE 0 END) as views,
	       sum(CASE WHEN event_type = 2 THEN 1 ELSE 0 END) as cart_adds,
	       abandoned,
	       purchases
	  INTO product_category_perf
	  FROM page_hierarchy ph
	  JOIN events e
	    ON ph.page_id = e.page_id
	  JOIN abandon ab
	    ON ph.product_category = ab.product_category 
	  JOIN purchased pc
	    ON ph.product_category = pc.product_category 
      GROUP BY ph.product_category,abandoned,purchases;
```

```sql
SELECT *
  FROM product_category_perf;
```

**Results:**
| product_category | views | cart_adds | abandoned | purchases |
| ---------------- | ----- | --------- | --------- | --------- |
| Fish             | 4633  | 2789      | 674       | 2115      |
| Shellfish        | 6204  | 3792      | 894       | 2898      |
| Luxury           | 3032  | 1870      | 466       | 1404      |

--------------------------------------------


Use your 2 new output tables - answer the following questions:

**Question 1**
Which product had the most views, cart adds and purchases?
-----
**Most views:**

**Query:**
```sql
  SELECT product,
         views
    FROM product_performance
ORDER BY views DESC
   LIMIT 1;
```

**Results:**
| product | views |
| ------- | ----- |
| Oyster  | 1568  |


**Most cart adds:**

**Query:**
```sql
  SELECT product, 
         cart_adds
    FROM product_performance
ORDER BY cart_adds DESC
   LIMIT 1;
```

**Results:**
| product | cart_adds |
| ------- | --------- |
| Lobster | 968       |

**Most purchases:**

**Query:**
```sql
  SELECT product,
         purchases
    FROM product_performance
ORDER BY purchases DESC
   LIMIT 1;
```

**Results:**
| product | purchases |
| ------- | --------- |
| Lobster | 754       |


**Question 2:**
Which product was most likely to be abandoned?
-----

**Query:**
```sql
  SELECT product,
         abandoned
    FROM product_performance
ORDER BY abandoned DESC
   LIMIT 1;
```

**Results:**
| product        | abandoned |
| -------------- | --------- |
| Russian Caviar | 249       |

----------

I created the report below in Power BI. It contains
* total number of views
* total number of cart adds
* total number of purchases
* total number of abandoned products
* top 3 products by views
* top 3 products by cart adds
* top 3 products by puchases
* top 3 abandoned products

![clique2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104911707/200275536-49e63f29-28ff-4782-82e3-6bc2b58098b9.png)

-----------------------------------




**Question 3:**
Which product had the highest view to purchase percentage?
-------

**Query:**
```sql
  SELECT product,
         views,
	 purchases,
	 round((100*purchases::numeric/views),2) as prchs_vw_percent
    FROM product_performance
ORDER BY prchs_vw_percent DESC;
```

**Results:**

| product        | views | purchases | prchs_vw_percent |
| -------------- | ----- | --------- | ---------------- |
| Lobster        | 1547  | 754       | 48.74            |
| Black Truffle  | 1469  | 707       | 48.13            |
| Oyster         | 1568  | 726       | 46.30            |
| Tuna           | 1515  | 697       | 46.01            |
| Crab           | 1564  | 719       | 45.97            |
| Abalone        | 1525  | 699       | 45.84            |
| Salmon         | 1559  | 711       | 45.61            |
| Kingfish       | 1559  | 707       | 45.35            |
| Russian Caviar | 1563  | 697       | 44.59            |

-------------------------------

**Question 4:**
What is the average conversion rate from view to cart add?
-------

**Query:**
```sql
SELECT round(100*sum(cart_adds)::numeric/sum(views),2) as avg_cnvrsn_rate
  FROM product_performance;
```
**Results:**
| avg_cnvrsn_rate |
| ----- |
| 60.93 |

-------------------------

**Question 5:**
What is the average conversion rate from cart add to purchase?
------

**Query:**
```sql
SELECT round(100*sum(purchases)::numeric/sum(cart_adds),2) as avg_cnvrsn_rate
FROM product_performance;
```

**Results:**
| avg_cnvrsn_rate |
| ----- |
| 75.93 |

----------------------------

Commit message:

Add table from Power BI

Case Study #6 - Clique Bait/B. Product Funnel Analysis.md, after:

Using a single SQL query - create a new output table which has the following details:

* How many times was each product viewed?
* How many times was each product added to cart?
* How many times was each product added to a cart but not purchased (abandoned)?
* How many times was each product purchased?

**Query:**
```sql
WITH 
--gets number of time a product was added to cart but not purchased
abandon as (
    SELECT page_name,
           count(event_type) as abandoned
      FROM events
      JOIN page_hierarchy
     USING (page_id)
     WHERE event_type = 2 
       AND visit_id NOT IN (SELECT visit_id FROM events where event_type =3)
  GROUP BY page_name 
             ),
--gets number of times each product was purchased
purchased as (
    SELECT page_name,
           count(event_type) as purchases
      FROM events
      JOIN page_hierarchy
     USING (page_id)
     WHERE event_type = 2 
       AND visit_id IN (SELECT DISTINCT visit_id FROM events WHERE event_type =3)
  GROUP BY page_name
             )
	
    SELECT ph.page_name as product,
           sum(CASE WHEN event_type = 1 THEN 1 ELSE 0 END) as views,
           sum(CASE WHEN event_type = 2 THEN 1 ELSE 0 END) as cart_adds,
           abandoned,
           purchases
      INTO product_performance
      FROM page_hierarchy ph
      JOIN events e
        ON ph.page_id = e.page_id
      JOIN abandon ab
        ON ph.page_name = ab.page_name 
      JOIN purchased pc
        ON ph.page_name = pc.page_name 
  GROUP BY ph.page_name,abandoned,purchases;
```

```sql
SELECT *
  FROM product_performance
```

**Results:**
| product        | views | cart_adds | abandoned | purchases |
| -------------- | ----- | --------- | --------- | --------- |
| Oyster         | 1568  | 943       | 217       | 726       |
| Salmon         | 1559  | 938       | 227       | 711       |
| Abalone        | 1525  | 932       | 233       | 699       |
| Tuna           | 1515  | 931       | 234       | 697       |
| Black Truffle  | 1469  | 924       | 217       | 707       |
| Russian Caviar | 1563  | 946       | 249       | 697       |
| Lobster        | 1547  | 968       | 214       | 754       |
| Kingfish       | 1559  | 920       | 213       | 707       |
| Crab           | 1564  | 949       | 230       | 719       |

Below is a copy of the table above in Power BI. The table is sorted in descending order of views. Also, the darker the color, the higher the number in comparison to the other figures in the column.


![clique4](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104911707/200325348-8aec0d01-b291-460c-ad07-a8ee5c32b20d.png)

------------------------------------------

Additionally, create another table which further aggregates the data for the above points but this time for each product category instead of individual products.

**Query:**
```sql
WITH 
--gets number of times product from each category was added to cart and not purchased 
abandon as (
	SELECT product_category,
	       count(event_type) as abandoned
	  FROM events
	  JOIN page_hierarchy
	 USING (page_id)
	 WHERE event_type = 2 
	   AND visit_id NOT IN (SELECT visit_id FROM events where event_type =3)
      GROUP BY product_category),
--gets number of times products were purchased from each category
purchased as (
	SELECT product_category,
	       count(event_type) as purchases
	  FROM events
	  JOIN page_hierarchy
	 USING (page_id)
	 WHERE event_type = 2 
	   AND visit_id IN (SELECT DISTINCT visit_id FROM events WHERE event_type =3)
      GROUP BY product_category)
	
        SELECT ph.product_category,
	       sum(CASE WHEN event_type = 1 THEN 1 ELSE 0 END) as views,
	       sum(CASE WHEN event_type = 2 THEN 1 ELSE 0 END) as cart_adds,
	       abandoned,
	       purchases
	  INTO product_category_perf
	  FROM page_hierarchy ph
	  JOIN events e
	    ON ph.page_id = e.page_id
	  JOIN abandon ab
	    ON ph.product_category = ab.product_category 
	  JOIN purchased pc
	    ON ph.product_category = pc.product_category 
      GROUP BY ph.product_category,abandoned,purchases;
```

```sql
SELECT *
  FROM product_category_perf;
```

**Results:**
| product_category | views | cart_adds | abandoned | purchases |
| ---------------- | ----- | --------- | --------- | --------- |
| Fish             | 4633  | 2789      | 674       | 2115      |
| Shellfish        | 6204  | 3792      | 894       | 2898      |
| Luxury           | 3032  | 1870      | 466       | 1404      |

--------------------------------------------


Use your 2 new output tables - answer the following questions:

**Question 1**
Which product had the most views, cart adds and purchases?
-----
**Most views:**

**Query:**
```sql
  SELECT product,
         views
    FROM product_performance
ORDER BY views DESC
   LIMIT 1;
```

**Results:**
| product | views |
| ------- | ----- |
| Oyster  | 1568  |


**Most cart adds:**

**Query:**
```sql
  SELECT product, 
         cart_adds
    FROM product_performance
ORDER BY cart_adds DESC
   LIMIT 1;
```

**Results:**
| product | cart_adds |
| ------- | --------- |
| Lobster | 968       |

**Most purchases:**

**Query:**
```sql
  SELECT product,
         purchases
    FROM product_performance
ORDER BY purchases DESC
   LIMIT 1;
```

**Results:**
| product | purchases |
| ------- | --------- |
| Lobster | 754       |


**Question 2:**
Which product was most likely to be abandoned?
-----

**Query:**
```sql
  SELECT product,
         abandoned
    FROM product_performance
ORDER BY abandoned DESC
   LIMIT 1;
```

**Results:**
| product        | abandoned |
| -------------- | --------- |
| Russian Caviar | 249       |

----------

I created the report below in Power BI. It contains
* total number of views
* total number of cart adds
* total number of purchases
* total number of abandoned products
* top 3 products by views
* top 3 products by cart adds
* top 3 products by puchases
* top 3 abandoned products

![clique2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104911707/200275536-49e63f29-28ff-4782-82e3-6bc2b58098b9.png)

-----------------------------------




**Question 3:**
Which product had the highest view to purchase percentage?
-------

**Query:**
```sql
  SELECT product,
         views,
	 purchases,
	 round((100*purchases::numeric/views),2) as prchs_vw_percent
    FROM product_performance
ORDER BY prchs_vw_percent DESC;
```

**Results:**

| product        | views | purchases | prchs_vw_percent |
| -------------- | ----- | --------- | ---------------- |
| Lobster        | 1547  | 754       | 48.74            |
| Black Truffle  | 1469  | 707       | 48.13            |
| Oyster         | 1568  | 726       | 46.30            |
| Tuna           | 1515  | 697       | 46.01            |
| Crab           | 1564  | 719       | 45.97            |
| Abalone        | 1525  | 699       | 45.84            |
| Salmon         | 1559  | 711       | 45.61            |
| Kingfish       | 1559  | 707       | 45.35            |
| Russian Caviar | 1563  | 697       | 44.59            |

-------------------------------

**Question 4:**
What is the average conversion rate from view to cart add?
-------

**Query:**
```sql
SELECT round(100*sum(cart_adds)::numeric/sum(views),2) as avg_cnvrsn_rate
  FROM product_performance;
```
**Results:**
| avg_cnvrsn_rate |
| ----- |
| 60.93 |

-------------------------

**Question 5:**
What is the average conversion rate from cart add to purchase?
------

**Query:**
```sql
SELECT round(100*sum(purchases)::numeric/sum(cart_adds),2) as avg_cnvrsn_rate
FROM product_performance;
```

**Results:**
| avg_cnvrsn_rate |
| ----- |
| 75.93 |

----------------------------
